---
title: Grusch & Elizondo Predict a “Wild” 2024
episodeNumber: 30
description: Lue Elizondo and David Grusch predict 2024 will be “wild.” Plus, new Grusch interviews and UFO documentary!
date: 2023-10-16
embedUrl: Grusch--Elizondo-Predict-a-Wild-2024-e2alvvv
tags:
  - whistleblowers
  - chris-mellon
  - lue-elizondo
  - david-grusch
  - ariel-school
  - fukushima
  - dopsr
  - broad-haven
  - jesse-michels
  - yes-theory
---

In this episode, former UAP program director Lue Elizondo and UAP whistleblower David Grusch both predict that 2024 will be “wild in a good way.” Then we discuss the new Grusch interviews that dropped, which go into a bit more detail on why the government approved him talking about this stuff at all, the culture of secrecy, and how his autism worked in his favor during his investigation. And finally, the new Netflix documentary was quite good. It covers four different mass UFO eyewitness events, including the Ariel School incident and UFO sightings over Fukushima.

---

## Grusch & Elizondo on 2024

- Lue Elizondo, former director of AATIP, the previous Pentagon UFO program: “Please know that ongoing efforts are underway that will reveal themselves by early to mid 2024. At the risk of haters trying to sabotage our efforts, I can’t be precise at this time. But if you have learned anything over the last 5 years, I never make empty promises. Trust me, this will be worth it.”
- David Grusch, the UAP whistleblower: “What is happening next is I know there’s some intel officers and other people in and out of government that are about to file complaints similar to what I did. Because they said fuck it. And they were on these programs, like these are first-hand dudes, not just people telling me stuff, but literally the dudes touching stuff. February of 2024, we should have a presidential panel on UAP disclosure, looking at the crash retrieval issue and everything, and then within 300 days of the enactment of the act, we’re gonna get some kind of government statement next year on this topic. The tsunami wave is building, and I don’t think we’re gonna totally backpedal any more. I think 2024 is going to be — knock on wood — potentially wild in a good way.”

## David Grusch Documentaries

- Two documentaries were released about a week apart, but they cover 80% of the same ground, because they were filmed at the same time by two friends who got permission from David Grusch to follow him around for a week around his Congressional testimony.
- Largely covers the same ground as his previous interviews, no big new claims, but lots of at-ease camera time gives you a better sense of who Grusch is when he’s not on-guard. They film him in cars, on hikes, on the patio of his home, etc.
- They also invited a group of a few dozen followers to meet with Grusch for a Q&A session, which was his first time in an open interaction with the public, including skeptics.
- I personally found it a bit frustrating because both struck a very “I know this sounds crazy, but let’s talk about aliens” vibe, and were presented in the modern Mr-Beast video crew style that I find very frustrating, but considering the intended audience, I thought both were quite good.

### A few particularly good quotes:

- Asked why his DOPSR was approved: “Catch-22. So [otherwise] they'd have to self-identify and highlight their concerns to redact. So, the office who would oppose the redaction - say it's a three-letter agency or whatever - so they would have to self-acknowledge. So, I think, when I submitted that, they had a choice, right? ‘Either we try to sequester Dave's ability to speak publicly and try to tell him no? But then we'd have to give him a reason and tell him what organization said no.’ If it got redacted like that, and it cited what organization and what security reason it is, I would just publish that. And then the public can make its own interpretation why, you know, the US government is withholding information about that kind of thing and wanted to sequester my speech.”
- Asked about the idea that a secret program of this scale would leak: “Yeah, people are like, 'Oh, dude, wouldn't it be broadly leaked or whatever?' I'm like, 'As somebody who is super cleared to a lot of that conventional stuff over the years, stuff never leaks. It doesn't come out. There are plenty of things that are pretty serious that are broad, that have never seen the light of day.'”
- Asking what people he spoke to were told to keep them quiet: “They're like, 'Look, dude, you're not getting promoted, you're gonna lose your job.' The psychology of the typical, career, government worker, right? Stable paycheck, pension, maintain clearance. So if any of that's threatened, they're gonna capitulate in most cases, right? The threatening nature of some of their indoctrinations where they're like, 'This is treason. You're going to Leavenworth if you EVER tell anybody not in the program. And oh, by the way, what's the penalty for treason? Oh, right. Execution, right?'”
- Asked about his autism and how it helped or hindered him: “I didn’t know that I was autistic until I was in my early 30s. I always wondered why in my personal life, if I get fixated on something and obsessed, what was going on with that. I mean, it served me well in the government, because I was super good at doing Intel. They’d come to me like ‘Dave, we want you to target this facility, you have six months, figure out everything,’ and I do, and that was very good. But I think it obviously causes me to be very detail oriented. I want to always tell the truth. My instinct is to just say it as it is. I have to. I have no filter.”
  - “Do you think the fact that you’re neurodivergent was a curve ball? Because your response is so different than others who might be pressured to stop looking and go away?”
  - “Yeah, I think my response is so analytical. I don't even think about it emotionally. My divergence really helped keep the train on the tracks, looking at this stuff. They didn’t consider my zest to continue the mission, because once you get me going, it’s hard to pull the brakes on the train.”

## Netflix Encounters Documentary Series

- On the whole, very good and not overly dramatized series that focuses on eyewitness accounts without trying to come to a definitive conclusion.
- Four episodes, each discussing notable mass UFO sightings and alien encounters:
  1. Messengers: In 2008, sightings of strange lights in the sky over Central Texas attracted media attention and ridicule. New radar data supports eyewitnesses’ claims.
     - They spoke to a number of eyewitnesses, including a police officer.
     - Most interestingly, they spoke to a MUFON investigator who arrived on the scene shortly after, and held a public meeting, expecting “35 is probably max, I dunno if we’ve ever had that many people show up.” Instead, at least 500 people showed up to share their story.
  2. Believers: In 1994, over 60 children at a Zimbabwe school claim to have seen aliens. Years later, witnesses maintain their accounts, while others are skeptical.
     - The Ariel School incident is famous, and really interesting due to the number of witnesses and the consistency of their story over the years.
     - One witness now claims to have made the whole thing up, but he’s changed his story pretty dramatically, and was still standing by his claim as recently as 2018.
     - Intersects with John Mack’s story, as he begins speaking  with experiencers and struggling with public reactions
  3. The Broad Haven Triangle: A close encounter at a children’s school in a tiny Welsh village spurs a series of sightings. An astrophysicist theorizes about aliens and water.
     - This one is interesting because a number of families reported encounters with 7-8 foot tall faceless aliens wearing silver suits.
     - One person claims to have faked the sightings using a firefighter suit, but he didn’t start until after the initial claims.
  4. Lights Over Fukushima: After the 2011 Fukushima nuclear disaster, survivors reported seeing bright lights above the power plant. For some, the event upholds a long-held belief.
     - Japanese culture seems much more comfortable with the unknown.
     - They speak with a Buddhist monk in the area, who is very matter of fact about UFO sightings in the region.
     - They also speak with one of the emergency crew who went in to recover bodies and look for survivors, who tells stories about bright lights hovering over dead bodies, and believes they were the spirits of the dead.

## References

- Lue Elizondo: [“Ongoing efforts will reveal themselves by early to mid 2024.”](https://twitter.com/LueElizondo/status/1712955707098640582)
- Jesse Michels documentary: [UFO Whistleblower Dave Grusch Tells Me Everything](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kRO5jOa06Qw)
- Yes Theory documentary: [7 Days with the Man Claiming Aliens Exist \(David Grusch Under Oath\)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kwsWAQ9sJZE)
- Netflix: [Encounters documentary](https://www.netflix.com/title/81489034)
- Wikipedia: [Project Iceworm](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Project_Iceworm)
- Wikipedia: [Cosmic ray visual phenomena](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cosmic_ray_visual_phenomena)
- Oncotarget. 2017 Sep 8; 8(38): 64579–64590. [“Mechanisms of phosphenes in irradiated patients”](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5610027/)
- Safecast: [Fukushima radiation spread](https://map.safecast.org/?y=37.554&x=140.986&z=10&l=0&m=0)
