---
title: Jake Barber Summons UFO at Nude Hot Springs
episodeNumber: 65
description: More details about UFO crash retrieval whistleblower Jake Barber.
date: 2025-02-07
embedUrl: Jake-Barber-Summons-UFO-at-Nude-Hot-Springs-e2uj534
tags:
  - ross-coulthart
  - jesse-michels
  - jake-barber
  - sean-kirkpatrick
  - garry-nolan
  - don-paul-bales
  - jordan-jozak
  - shane-frakes
  - steven-greer
  - michael-herrera
  - alex-klokus
  - skywatcher
  - crash-retrieval
  - psionics
---

UFO crash retrieval program whistleblower Jake Barber made some shocking claims in his first interview with Ross Coulthart. Now, they’ve released the full-length 3-hour interview, as well as interviews with his supporting witnesses, another 3-hour interview with Jesse Michels, and Skywatcher’s first video documenting their attempt to summon a UFO. Join us as we discuss the additional details revealed about Barber’s story, including his cover work, retrieval operations, his encounter with Steven Greer and Michael Herrera, as well as a strange story about a summoned UFO landing before a nude hot springs.

---

> “My name is Jacob Barber and for the last 30 years I've worked for the US government and its private partners in both an official capacity as an enlisted man in the United States Air Force and in a nonofficial capacity for the broader intelligence community as a contractor. Over the last three decades, my work has been very diverse and has included the recovery of downed UAP of non-human origin. I  am pleased to share that as of a couple weeks ago, I have fulfilled a promise to our friend David Grush by getting myself into a SCIF with Congress, and I have provided top secret SCI testimony on the subject matter of UAP.”

## Service Record

- Barber: “ In high school, I was prospected into an enlistment program. It was a guaranteed training enlistment program contract for… Air Force Special Operations.  I finished my screening… shipped off to Air Force Basic Training. [After that,] I completed [Air Force Special Operations Selection]… and entered into what is known as the pipeline. The pipeline is approximately a two year specialized training schedule where you go to a number of schools. At a certain point in my pipeline, I was approached by some individuals who had a discussion with me and convinced me it might be a good idea to consider becoming an airplane mechanic.”
- Barber: “ So my cover was working as an airplane mechanic… and I spent a lot  of time deploying on [covert] missions…  I deployed to Bosnia. I was involved in the liberation of Kuwait.”
  - Coulthart: “ You've essentially had the training… but you were not a tier one operator.”
  - Barber: “That’s correct.  There's no evidence that I was ever assigned to any task force.”
  - Coulthart: “ One way you can validate that you were doing special work is that you were actually recommended for a heroism medal, weren’t you?”
  - Barber: “Every once in a while things showed up in my record. [That medal] was squashed by my case officer…  because what the hell would an aircraft mechanic be doing chasing war criminals in Bosnia and doing so to the extent that he would find himself in a situation that would be worthy of a Medal of Heroism?”

## Covert Contractor

- Barber: “ So after 9/11, I went back to California and I began going to work on the next chapter of my life, which is working as a contractor for the broader intelligence community… Legitimacy is the best cover… So in order to provide a certain utility to the government by way of a contractor, I have to go and establish [my legitimacy]… And I spend most of my time doing that. I specialize in security and transportation… I'm basically a helicopter operations expert and security expert.”
- Barber: “Actually, one of the first things I  did is I had to go to commercial pilot school in order to create a legitimate training record so that I could operate in an official capacity this time as a, a helicopter pilot.”
  - Coulthart: “ So you'd learned how to fly as a covert operator, but they didn't give you a license for it in the military, because you weren't allowed to have that qualification, because that would undermine your cover… So you had to go and pretend not to be a pilot in order to get your commercial pilot license?”
  - Barber: “Yeah, that was loads of fun, actually… Pretending to be bad was quite easy in the beginning. The hardest part was faking a natural learning curve… A few times I took the liberty to mess with my flight instructor, but he just thought I got lucky.”
- Barber: “So we stood up a [business, and]… held many contracts with the DOD, Department of Interior, State Department, and other local agencies as well.  And through that work… although the majority of our time was doing the day to day work and keeping that business up and going, our real purpose was to make ourselves available for the… calls that would come in. And we would be put to work on missions for the program.”
- Barber: “ When a call would come in, typically it meant we were going out to what I call the Range, which is in the desert of California… a giant playground for the DOD and its private aerospace partners for testing weapons technology, radar technology, experimental craft, and that craft’s resilience to radar and weapons technology and vice versa… And we would be there to support, from a security and transportation standpoint, the operations out there.”

## The Egg

- Barber: “ The night that this happened, we weren't expecting an egg. I wasn't briefed on an egg. When this happened, it was a surprise to everyone. I can tell you, within not only my leadership structure—which is most concerning when they're surprised—but also everyone around me on my team. When this happened, we altered our communication protocol. We altered our security protocol. And it was obvious to everyone that what we were dealing with was something extraordinary…  if it was human there would have been a much different response. There would have been some expectation that what we were working on that night may have not responded well to the radar that was being thrown at it, and we would have expected a crash. And we would have been trained on how to deal with that. No one was trained on how to deal with that. And everybody acted really weird…  It was compartmentalization on steroids that night.”
- Barber: “ It actually went off the range, which was added to part of our challenge. And I can't tell you where it landed, but it was tracked and intercepted over the range. And by the time it finally interfaced with the ground, it was off the playground, which complicated our recovery.”

## The Eight-gon

- Barber: “ So on most of these missions, I'm working from the cockpit of the helicopter. And the ground crew is a separate crew that gets dispatched, and they're dealing with hazmat, security, containment, setting up a perimeter and an entry control point and observation. They're doing all that. I sit back at a separate location. I get GPS coordinates at the very last second, I get dispatched, I go there, and then en route, from a very short range out, maybe five minutes out, I get read a description of what it is I'm picking up.”
- Barber: “[For the egg,] there was no disclosure for hazmat or souls on board…  Souls on board is a disclosure I would get if there were living bodies. And on this particular night [with the eight-gon], I got my normal readout for the load. And this time it included a hazmat disclosure for biologics…”
- Barber: “They don’t say [dead] bodies, they just say hazmat…  I've seen plenty of human bodies and recovered human bodies in this same way. It's a standard disclosure. So when I was flying in, I thought that's what I was dealing with. It's like, Oh shit. Pilot crashed on the range and we're hauling off, you know, body parts… This night, I get an approximate size and dimension, and then I get negative souls on board and a hazmat disclosure, uh, for biological hazmats.”
- Barber: “ There might be biological entities, and we use the word biological for a very specific reason… We aren't here to imply that it is sentient or has a consciousness. We really don't know that. There is some evidence that shows… that these are something like soft tissue drones or lab meat that was programmed in order to operate craft… Meat robots…”
- Barber: “Some  of the biological cargo that comes with these craft is not conscious. Consciousness itself is how you interact and pilot the craft, which is ironic because… the biological creatures inside are not conscious, but the craft is.”

## Psionic Recoveries

- Barber: “An aircraft crashed. My team was deployed. We secured the perimeter. We secured that target. We transported that target. We escorted that target, and provided security for that target. That target was transported to a facility of a very well-known government private partner. The decision was made to bring in a team that represented a different private partner who was working on consciousness and the mechanism by which humans could interface with technology. The two were merged, and we were involved with that process.”
- Barber: “ In the program, there was certainly a desire to explore the idea that perhaps UAP could be summoned, could be communicated with, could be controlled, and could be persuaded to land, all by deploying people with psionic abilities to interface and communicate with the UAP. I saw that happen.”
- Coulthart: “ The implication of what you're saying is that this intelligence that's behind these objects, whatever it is, seems willing to share.”
  - Barber: “Yeah, I think it ultimately is working for us and it is commonly talked about that what we are getting, even when we weaponize it, is a donation.”

## Reverse Engineering

- Barber: “So there's a certain effort to reverse engineer these crafts. That effort very quickly led to the idea that the power plant for these systems and the interface to manipulate that power plant wasn't done through mechanical interface of levers to manipulate control systems, it was done through the mind.”
- Coulthart: “People I've spoken to inside the program… who've told me they've seen inside the egg and other craft, they tell me there's no… steering wheel or no levers to push. Basically, they're almost empty, and it would explain why the capacity to psionic connect with that technology is the way that it's used.”
- Coulthart: “Another story I got told… is that for years there was a craft that was hovering in one of these secret black world warehouses and nobody could figure out how to open the bloody thing and… one day one of the blokes working on it put his hand against the side of it and just thought to himself, ‘oh God, I wish this would open.’ And apparently the door opened. And that was one of the first realizations they had that there was a psionic connection to the phenomenon.”
- Jordan Jozak: “I have firsthand experience in… a psionic exploitation program… where I interfaced and worked with non-human intelligence and… UAP directly… [On a daily basis], this would look like things that many people would consider ‘woo-woo’-y, like astral projection or meditation, but ultimately what we were really investigating was how far could we stretch the balance of human consciousness. Beyond that, how could we get human consciousness to interface directly with things like recovered materials and recovered crafts… What I can tell you… is ultimately that they interfaced with us. What I mean by that is my consciousness could project into these craft… and then access a suite of commands, essentially capabilities to do various things, including piloting. But ultimately the story is not about piloting some UAP with your mind, this story is much more about what is consciousness? Why can we interface with these things?”

## Psionic Abilities

- Barber: “ And that is not a woo-woo topic… It's so matter of fact to me, that it's the same as saying night vision goggles. Like it's there, we use it…  You can think of consciousness as a field… It's like the internet. It's always there. We can't see it. It's full of information and exciting things, but [you can’t] point to it.  You have to be able to tap into it. You need something like a wifi [antenna] to get there.  So individuals that have this gift are people that have been trained and have the talent to serve as a wifi to tap into the consciousness field where everything in the universe seems to exist or have its presence.”
- Garry Nolan: “In the 80s and 90s [there were] military programs… called the ‘spidey sense’ program, where they were… identifying people in squads who the rest of the squad members said ‘hey, when Joe says don't go that way, we should go another way.’ The people that they trusted. Now, maybe they were picking up something… that is just a form of communication and physics that we don't quite yet understand.”
- Barber: “You need to… satisfy the instinct, suppress the intellect, heighten the intuition… How do we heighten intuition? …Through stress inoculation. You do it through triggering flight or flight…  all these things get activated. You got to hijack the amygdala and boom, you put someone there. How do you… subdue the intellect? By disassociation. There are chemical ways to induce disassociation.  There are more proactive ways… like through meditation… [Finally], your instincts have to be satisfied… You have to be comfortable. Can't be hungry. Can't be horny. Can't be tired. Can't be worried about your survival. You can't be cold. You can't be hot. All that has to be taken care of, so the limbic part of your brain is not freaking out while… you connect to the consciousness internet.”
- Coulthart: “ Was there any other group that was especially susceptible to being able to engage with this technology? … It's been suggested to me that left handed gay men are particularly good at it.”
  - Barber: “ That certainly seems to be the case. That there is a larger distribution of the predisposition [for psionic ability] amongst… gay men.”
  - Shane Frakes, AF vet, psionic asset: “For the record, trauma is a stronger indicator of psionic gifts than traits like being left-handed or part of the LGBTQ+ community. Individuals who have endured trauma often experience dissociation, which, combined with heightened neuroplasticity, enables the rewiring of neural pathways, potentially unlocking extraordinary abilities.”
  - Barber: “People really misunderstand the nuance of the gay/left-handed factor.   Here’s an example that will clear it up: Let’s say hypothetically 1 out of 1,000 people are gay/left-handed in the general population. And, 2 out of 1,000 people are gay/left-handed in the population of people with substantial predisposition for psi, what that means is that while that is double the number, (from 1 to 2) it still means 998 people out of a 1,000 in the psi community are not gay/left-handed.  The overwhelming majority.”

## High Value Targets

- Barber: “ When the NYT article came out in 2017, it was really about then things started getting really weird for us. There was a lot of movement in our world. A lot of things changed for us. A lot of our contract call outs changed. New people are introduced into leadership structures. Our communication methods changed. Our compensation package got creative.”
- Barber: “ It was believed that there was evidence of  crash retrievals that were proof of criminal activity on these tough books, and that this  data was  captured illegally  on operations within the program in the desert  and that there was a whistleblower or group of whistleblowers that were going to be turning this evidence in to the powers that be in order to expose the program and thereby expose individuals…”
- Barber: “There were at least two adversarial parties who would do anything to get their hands on them. And we got caught in the middle.  The next mission we went out on, I'll just tell you that shots were fired…  We got jerked around… We were given a partnered air asset instead of using our own… Our intel changed last minute. Our location changed. There was a lot of bad things that were going on rhythmically that didn't smell right… And we called bullshit… We deployed our own air assets and we got the hell out of there… I was concerned we were being set up… as a suitable patsy…”
- Barber: “[Afterwards],  I cut ties and… had to get rid of everyone on my team and build a brand new team from scratch… We cleaned house, and I went back and recruited through very reliable sources.  And we set out to try and figure out exactly who the adversarial parties were that were both interested in these laptops.”
- Barber: “It was obvious to us at least who the employer was, but they were now in question in my mind as being part of the problem we ran into.  Perhaps it wasn't this company. Perhaps there was someone in mid level management or someone completely external that was masquerading as representatives of this company. And they liked wearing their merchandise…”
- Barber: “So I reached out to the director of security for the particular organization… and spoke to them directly about our operation.  I found out that the people at the top claimed to know nothing about it and they didn't want to touch it with a 10 foot pole. And they advised me to leave it alone.”
- Don Paul Bales: “When the people who are supposed to be at the highest levels are afraid to discuss what you're doing, that's a clue. When they are worried about their well-being and the well-being of their families… and say the smartest thing you can do is to let this go, don't ask questions, walk away? When they're afraid, then there's cause for concern.”

## Whistleblower

- Barber: “When I went to the director of security and realized he didn't have my back, I realized I couldn't trust my nebulous network anymore. Then I was at a loss… I found myself reaching out to the one thing that was always my get out of jail free card, which was, I knew if anything got bad, I could go to members of Congress, particularly the Senate Intelligence Committee, the monitor for the CIA,  and plead my case and ask for help. So we started there, and unfortunately, that was a very disheartening experience.”
- Barber “Going there, asking for their help, that very quickly turned into them asking for my help… Which was  extremely disappointing to say the least. But they were scared. They were scared and they were running into their own problems… They were being harassed and they were afraid for their own personal safety.  They were feeling threatened and other people they were speaking to as sources were being threatened…  They were being bullied and being harassed at their homes and were scared for their life and wanted me to set up a personal protection detail to help protect them. And I was like, fine, fuck. I guess this is where we're going with it.”
- Barber: “There are people that have died under very suspicious circumstances at the most convenient time for those who would want to have them silenced, who were coming out and who were speaking out on our activities… I met Dave Grusch after his initial complaint… I know some of [his 40 firsthand witnesses]. One of them is no longer with us, and his demise was quite conveniently timed… [I can’t say anything more], because there's an investigation happening right now.”
- Coulthart: “ Do you worry for your safety for your family's safety?”
  - Barber: “ No, I don't. I think I'm being protected believe it or not by the NHI, and also I don't put up with harassment. I don't believe in the boogeyman. I am the boogeyman.”

## Multiple Programs

- Barber: “What's happening is there are multiple programs and multiple coverups happening all the same time… I can tell you that this is not unique to the United States, and it's not unique to the most well-known private partners of the Department of Defense and the intelligence community. There is a global effort and interest in this, and a global capability in doing this. Crash recovery is something, and reverse engineering is something that is being done by a number of agencies or organizations worldwide, and I know that because my team has been sought after and offered jobs to go perform our services for employers outside the United States.”
- Coulthart: “There’s an incident that I've been told about from 2004, and I've been told about it by multiple people. I've been told that a private aerospace company was testing one of its own vehicles, what's referred to as an alien reproduction vehicle, an ARV… That vehicle crashed  somewhere south of New Mexico. Possibly in Mexico. And I'm told that a team from that private aerospace contractor was deployed, and while they were there, another team arrived from the US military. And they had innocently been deployed by their government to intercept what they thought was a potentially anomalous craft. And in the course of that encounter, I am told two men were killed. Can you comment on that incident?”
  - Barber: “ There's nothing I can add to that story or comment on. If I did have something to add, if I had knowledge of that,  it would certainly be something I would expect to get squashed by DOPSR.”

## Greer & Herrera

- Barber: “[In 2023], I was still working in my official capacity of protecting the sensitive data that was on these HVTs… My understanding was that whoever was in illegal possession of these HVTs, may have the intention to expose that sensitive material as a whistleblower… So, Dr. Greer was scheduling a whistleblower conference… at the Press Club in Washington, D.C. And so we reached out to him… and we set up a meeting and I explained to him upfront what our intentions were, that we believed that there were whistleblowers that might come forward with something that is sensitive and it may not be appropriate to disclose… So we offered our service to help vet whistleblowers at the time thinking whoever had these HVTs might show up with the contents… They never did but what was interesting at the time is we were contemplating our own whistleblower path forward because of what had happened.”
- Barber: “ What surprised me is during this event  a young marine named Michael Herrera came forward with a very particular story and spoke of a particular operation… And when he spoke, I knew what he was saying was true. No one else was believing him, and he was wrong about a few key things that he was speculating on. So I made the decision after he spoke to go to Dr. Greer and ask to speak with him privately.”
- Coulthart: “ Let me summarize very quickly what Michael Herrera alleged. He was on a relief mission in Sumatra, Indonesia.  They were deployed, he and his small patrol, to a particular area [following an earthquake] and they were helping find people who needed help.  In the course of that patrol, they were carrying weapons. That's something that's been vigorously disputed by some of his colleagues, but he's adamant that he was carrying weapons. And they stumbled across a gigantic craft… hovering in the air. And below that craft, there was a platform with trucks… and… containers that he described.  He [said] the paramilitaries pointed their weapons and threatened to kill the Marines. [He said] that they were American. They took their guns off them, and they… threatened that they were going to be killed… They [eventually] allowed them to leave, but they were told not to look back.”
  - Jesse Michels: “ And then somebody backchannels to him from the program and says, This is actually the reason [they] was there and they were there next to that craft, is because they were transferring psionic assets for the program…”
  - Barber: “ *We* back channeled it. That was us…”
- Barber: “We were able to corroborate at least three key things.  One, that those types of paramilitary units do exist because guys from our group get recruited and offer jobs to go exercise our skills elsewhere, outside the U.S… The other thing is the description of the craft is exactly what I had seen before, and my team had seen before, except he claimed this one was like 300 feet in diameter… The other thing was the containers… He assumed that they must have been transporting drugs because he saw these units on the roofs…  I knew that those types of containers, when associated with that craft,  were used for the psionic team. That's why they had mini split HVAC units on the top, to provide comfortable environments inside… You can operate inside those containers and they're sealed. They're kind of like a Faraday cage in that regard, where it allows you to concentrate. If you're going to operate from those, you can concentrate on your work as a psionic asset.”
- Barber: “ And this entire incident was brought up, with my corroborations and my additional information, was presented to Sean Kirkpatrick's version of AARO. [In the AARO historical report,] he patently denied it and wrote it off, saying there was no evidence. And I know for a fact that Sean Kirkpatrick has admitted outside of the office of AARO directly to members of the Senate Intelligence Committee that it did in fact happen exactly as reported by Michael Herrera and with my additions.”

## Skywatcher & Mystery Drones

- Barber: “ You know, touching on the New Jersey thing, we were just out there. We were assigned to support the DOD and the FBI task force… We were primarily focused on the activity above and around Picatinny Arsenal…  But we found there wasn't a lot of coordination going on. The powers that be really don't know what's going on or very few do. And they're clearly not communicating with the rest of leadership and the public.”
- Barber: “There's something very concerning over Picatinny arsenal… First night there on the ground… within 30 minutes… all these orange orbs come into existence right over Picatinny Arsenal…”
- Barber: “So the first thing we looked at was, okay, these are probably large drones that we know the classes of that are available out there in military inventory… that was turning off its lights en route and then on return to base, which is illegal…  These were lights off, [flying] over 400 feet, over Picatinny Arsenal, just sitting there, [five hours plus in some cases].”
- Barber: “But we still don't know if it was just lights going off or they're popping into place. Because while this is going on, in the airspace south of there, we also were running a program… and we had UAP class stuff popping up to the south of there, cutting in from the outer atmosphere, hovering into place, and going back into space.”

## Skywatcher Episode One

- Alex Klokus: “Not only do we have people from the actual crash recovery team… [we have people from] the psionics team… Their claims are so bold and extraordinary that they truly are tough to believe, so we set up an initiative to go one step further… We said ‘prove it.’ You claim you can summon things in the sky, prove it to us. We’ve got the sensors, we’ve got… a scientific team led by Dr Garry Nolan… and we’ve asked these folks to show us and actually verify what they’re saying.”
- Garry Nolan: “I was there not to provide any conclusions. I was there to make sure that everything that was being done was being done in a scientifically accurate way, as dispassionately as possible.”
- Klokus: “The psionic team claimed to be connecting to an object, and our sensor data caught this… We have an egg-shaped object that our sensors caught moving in one direction, supposedly connected to our psionics team, and a disc shaped object… moving in a different direction.”
- Barber: “ At the moment we… elicited the egg,  it shows up moving so fast we couldn't see it with the naked eye. Another object also showed up at that time that our top observer saw this object that burnt the sensor in his camera. We had another camera, luckily that was also recording, but where the first object showed up, the sensor was damaged. Behind that, the egg flies by in dead silence, makes a turn, and comes around in to land and disappears behind the house.”
- Barber: “To appreciate just how good of an image this is, imagine trying to capture a picture of a white bullet flying out of a high-powered rifle. Now, multiply the speed of that bullet 3 to 6 times.  The speed of a high powered rifle round is 1,200-1,500 MPH.   The speed of this object was estimated to be between 3,000 - 9,000 MPH. Lastly, imagine the guy firing the rifle isn’t telling the camera guy which direction he is going to shoot.”
- Skywatcher: “This is meant to mark the beginning, not the end. We believe a breakthrough is imminent, and it’s imperative we figure this out now. We have since upgraded our operation. We are actively running more tests and remain committed to using the scientific process to gather robust data and evidence.”
- Klokus: “The day we were wrapping up our event something incredible happened. There was a mass UAP sighting directly in the area where we ran our operation. There were dozens of claims on neighborhood apps of residents seeing anomalous things in the sky. The story picked up steam, and in a few days, there were thousands of tweets about the incident. The FAA even imposed a temporary flight restriction over the area where we ran our operation. Is this causation? Did we cause this event? Is this correlation, or was it purely coincidental?”

## Skywatcher at Esalen

- Coulthart: “[There was] a retreat that took place at Esalen, which is a beautiful location… south of San Francisco… and Jake and I attended that retreat.”
- Barber: “It felt absolutely historic… We had… doctors, and neurosurgeons. We had physicists. We had high-net-worth individuals in the billions, that were extremely open-minded and had a frontier attitude towards all this. We had mystics, we had psychic kids, we had children from Germany that could harness and actually showcase their ability to perform telekinesis, their ability to psychically see things with their mind, and were able to prove that to all of us.”
- Barber: “We… deployed… our psionic assets… and we summoned UAP. We had the UAP come and fly around, and visit, hang out with us, and take off.”
- Coulthart: “I can tell you I witnessed… a person with alleged psionic abilities… [help] a group of… 30 or 40 people go into a deep meditative state. And… this person had said to me… that afternoon, Ross, we're going to see a blue orb tonight. And I kind of giggled nervously.”
- Coulthart: “What happened was he starts meditating and—ping—up on the far horizon over the ocean, these 2 white orbs, slightly golden at times, they start coming towards us. And, I won't embarrass this gentleman, but there's a certain person of extraordinary high wealth and extraordinarily big heart who's yelling at these objects going, "We love you… Come closer."
- Coulthart: “And the whole audience, you know, we're all we've all been meditating and being invited to sort of try and psychically connect. I am a miserable failure of a meditator… But something happened… and the audience's loving engagement, and I know this sounds hippie-ish… But, essentially, the loving engagement with that phenomenon encouraged it to come closer, and they did. They came closer and closer and closer…”
- Coulthart: “We were in one part of Esalen, and there were a whole lot of… beautiful young people sitting stark naked in these hot springs on the other side of Esalen. And all of a sudden, they see these blue shapes coalescing in front of them… We got images from the hill looking down of a blue orb, a beautiful, at times octagonal looking blue orb, which kind of hovered near… the hot springs. And then it went and landed on the beach.”

## References

- [NewsNation Full Jake Barber Interview](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t37-SKj4rtY)
- [NewsNation Full Fred Baker Interview](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=o72BBZYXm9c)
- [NewsNation Full John Blintch Interview](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q38SwPmObho)
- [NewsNation Full Don Paul Bales Interview](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZRLmTB00zlI)
- [NewsNation Full Garry Nolan Interview](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WCDVIGxn48M)
- [Jesse Michels’ Jake Barber Interview](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dnnpyNuPdXs)
- [Skywatcher Part I: The Journey Begins](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PcuxnqQLuAQ)
- Skywatcher: [“Before we share, a few key points.”](https://x.com/SkywatcherHQ/status/1884314839566410103)
- Barber: [“To appreciate how good this image is, imagine trying to capture a bullet from a high-powered rifle.”](https://x.com/jakebarber2025/status/1885049814532186464)
- Coulthart: [Q&A on Jake Barber](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VzQX61j-hZ0&t=2860s)
- Frakes: [“Trauma is a stronger indicator of psionic gifts than traits like being left-handed.”](https://x.com/OldVetSymposium/status/1883510887639908415)
- Barber: [“People really misunderstand the nuance of the gay/left-handed factor.”](https://x.com/jakebarber2025/status/1883586888650436687)
