---
title: 'Dr. Eric Davis on Alien Races: Greys, Nordics, Reptilians, Insectoids'
episodeNumber: 73
description: Dr Eric Davis recently spoke to Congress about crash retrievals, nonhuman tech, and alien races.
date: 2025-05-25
embedUrl: Dr--Eric-Davis-on-Alien-Races-Greys--Nordics--Reptilians--Insectoids-e33bsur
tags:
  - matthew-brown
  - immaculate-constellation
  - jeremy-corbell
  - george-knapp
  - michael-shellenberger
  - lue-elizondo
  - sentient
  - ai
  - sean-kirkpatrick
  - marco-rubio
  - nancy-mace
  - bernard-haisch
---

The UAP Disclosure Fund held an informational briefing about UFOs for Congress. In addition to hearing from Chris Mellon, Avi Loeb, and Tim Gallaudet, we got to hear from Dr. Eric Davis, the alleged author of the Wilson/Davis notes. He spoke about his background in astrophysics and how he started investigating UFOs for Robert Bigelow, eventually becoming one of David Grusch’s primary witnesses. He answered questions about exotic material science, UFO flight mechanics, and even talked about the alien races that are alleged to be flying these craft!

---

- Elizondo: “Dr Eric Davis is not only a colleague, but a friend and in some cases even a mentor. He is a theoretical and applied physicist, Senior Science Advisor at Earth Tech, former researcher at the Aerospace Corporation… [He] was one of our senior scientists during my tenure at AATIP… and AAWSAP, as well, he was one of our chief scientists, and by the way, he was also part of other legacy efforts before that, working with elements of the US government. And I think what you’re going to find him have to say today is going to be very, very compelling.”
- Davis: “I’m an astrophysicist… My background is in advanced deep space and interstellar space flight, mostly faster-than-light propulsion through the use of general relativity theory and quantum field theory, as well as advanced nuclear propulsion like fission, fusion, and beamed energy propulsion, which I worked on as a principal investigator for the Air Force Research Lab at Edwards Air Force Base… I earned my doctorate in physics at the University of Arizona in 1999 and worked on three space missions in graduate school: the IRAS (Infrared Astronomical Satellite) program and two Voyager missions to the outer planets… I’ve got quite a broad background.”
- Davis: “I began my work in UFOs—or UAP—starting in 1996 when Robert Bigelow hired me as his Director of Aerospace Physics and Astrophysics at the National Institute for Discovery Science. That was a transformative job for me. As a physical scientist, I was for the first time investigating live phenomena using forensic science techniques in the field. That job at NIDS transformed my worldview. It opened me to a lot more possibilities than I was used to thinking of as a trained physicist.”
- Davis: “It was due to astronaut Ed Mitchell that I got onto the trail of looking for the… retrieval of crashed or landed UAP craft… I ended up, over the course of the following two and a half decades, working for Bigelow, working for the Air Force Research Lab, working for Hal Puthoff at EarthTech International, and then working at the Aerospace Corporation. We’re working in a combination of industries and classified programs that we were contracted to do on behalf of the Defense Intelligence Agency, and for the Pentagon agencies that Lue worked at, and the UAP Task Force that Jay Stratton led at the Office of Naval Intelligence.
- Davis: “I was fortunate to meet Dave Grusch at the behest of Jay Stratton. Dave was an NRO liaison officer to the UAP Task Force… I was assigned to work at the Aerospace Corporation… supporting NASA’s space nuclear propulsion program office. Jay put Dave and Dave’s boss and I together, and I briefed them for two and a half days just the week before COVID struck. Dave took all my classified and proprietary information from the investigations I did at NIDS and for Hal Puthoff at Earthcorp, and what you now know, the output of that was his classified whistleblower complaint to the ICIG.”
- Davis: “Long story short is that I came into contact with industry leaders, technical scientists, intelligence officers, generals, admirals, colonels, people who directed intelligence operations at DIA and the CIA. They reached out to have me do some foreign UAP intelligence analysis and assessment. So, I have been exposed to so much in the classified realm that I can tell you definitively that there is a ‘there’ there. The human race, basically the world’s biggest governments, like the United States and our adversaries China and Russia, at least as far as I know, have had the occasion to recover craft that either landed or crashed or both in their territory or even outside of their territories, and have taken those back to the most sensitive programs they’ve ever had.”
- Davis: “These programs are more sensitive and well hidden than the Manhattan Project was, or modern nuclear weapons programs… It was hidden from congressional oversight and always has been. It was hidden by the action of President Eisenhower, who instituted presidential emergency action directives during his administration.
- Davis: “These directives are not shared with Congress, they are classified, and when the Freedom of Information Act was instituted in the 70s, those are not subject to it… These directives provide cover for actions that are associated with the retrieval of these vehicles and the scientific and engineering study of them, and that takes place within the industry.”
- Davis: “What happens is the Department of Defense offices, CIA offices, they create shell companies, they give a sole-source contract to the shell company, who passes the money to a select group of defence industry firms, and those firms will take that contract money and turn it around and use that as internal R&D funds, which they give to their own employees to do reverse engineering and analysis and study of these recovered vehicles. So this avoids all congressional oversight and it avoids any debate. It’s one of the most clever techniques used to hide it.”
- Davis: “As far as I know, only one four star general and one three star admiral were able to locate these programs. That’s about as much as I can say. They located the programs and they uncovered them. One got a lot of resistance and hostile reception, and was told that he found who he was looking for. They were who they were suspected of being, yes, they were a UFO/UAP crash retrieval and reverse engineering program. The other one had a lot more political power behind him because of his stature as a four-star general, and he was able to get into the program.”
- Davis: “We have had this program going on in various guises, various code names. Code names change roughly every three years. They often shift around due to major office and programmatic reorganizations from presidential administrations, maybe every five to ten years, in some cases. So these things are very old… but they’re still around… I would say, since the beginning of 1944, with the… US Army’s recovery of a craft that crashed in Italy back in 1933. When the US Army invaded Italy and pushed the third reich down, they were able to recover that craft and bring it back to Wright Airfield.”
- Davis: “All the crash retrievals that have taken place generally on land have gone to Wright Airfield, the majority of the crash retrievals take place in a maritime environment, and I’m not sure where that is going, I think probably also to Wright… I don’t know where they’re going today though, because I’ve only worked on the legacy history of this part of it up until about the early 2010s and ever since the end of AAWSAP and AATIP, I don’t know where those operations are going on these days.”
- Davis: “The craft that have been recovered are not of this Earth. They’re not made by human hands. They’re not from this planet. They’re not human. They are an alien technology, whatever the word alien means. Are they extraterrestrial? We don’t know. What motives do they have? We need anthropologists and social psychologists and philosophers to figure that out, because they haven’t communicated that to us. Physicists like me… we can’t answer questions like motive. We just need to take data.”
- Elizondo: “What makes exotic material that has been recovered from the US government exotic?”
- Davis: It’s actually a very simple answer. It’s the way it’s fabricated. That’s what makes it exotic. It’s not a new element that’s never been discovered and placed on the periodic table. The materials are in the periodic tables. They’re either radioactive isotopes we already know of, or they’re among the other non-radioactive, non-actinide elements. It’s just that the combination of materials is unusual. You could say that makes it exotic—but it’s the composition. It’s how you built the craft, the materials that form the craft and everything inside the craft… the counterintuitive way in which they were structured—that made the material so extraordinary. It’s the fabrication method itself that makes it exotic.”
- Davis: “What he was telling me, he's an advanced material scientist, and he said we could use the best diagnostic equipment we had back in those days, which was 60s, 70s, 80s, and 90s, and we could see the elements, through mass spectroscopy, that compose these structures, but when we look at how they're composed and structured, it's it's like nothing we've been able to fabricate on Earth. We've never been able to reproduce it on Earth, and we have no extrapolated engineering or physics technology to tell us how we could possibly fabricate this on Earth.”
- Burlison: “What is your understanding of the physics or the likely propulsion technology?”
- Davis: “We can only speculate. These things are so far in advance, we can only speculate. The best speculation I can come up with is general relative does a great job predicting something like a warp bubble. UAP do exhibit the phenomenon of sublight, or less than light speed, warp bubbles, however that becomes a challenge when you talk about UAPs that dive into the ocean… It’s warping spacetime. That’s described in Einstein’s general relativity… They have a thin shell of energy, and the type of energy has to be negative energy density, and it would be consistent with the type of energy density that you can create from the quantum vacuum…”
- Davis: “So we have good ideas about these things and we can speculate… but we have craft in our possession, but there are no physicists working in those programs. They’re basically mechanical, aerodynamics, aerospace, thermal control engineers, electronic and electrical engineers, and material scientists… They've never had a physicist like Avi or I. They've never had an applied physicist or an experimental physicist and so they are really lacking in the ability to understand how these things fly.
- Elizondo: “The legacy programs are very insulated and insular, so unfortunately, it’s a bit of an incestuous community. There’s not a whole lot of outside involvement, because it’s so highly classified, and that’s been some of the frustration and challenges, technologically speaking, because we haven’t been able to recently apply new talent, new ideas, new theories to what the US government may be in possession of.”
- Elizondo: “Can you talk about the Nimitz incident and the calculations for the object to go from 80,000 feet within less than a second to 50 feet over the water, what type of energy requirements are we walking about?”
- Davis: “Hundreds of times the total energy produced in the United States annually. That’s the kind of energy that is representative of the observed features and performances of UAP craft, especially the tic tac… and that compares really well with interstellar spacecraft that would travel ultra-relativisitically, anywhere from 90-99% the speed of light. The energy is astronomically huge… Travis Tayler and I have speculated that possibly they’re teleporting energy from a remote distant location where the energy is produced to the craft, and that’s how the craft can move around without having to carry propellant or a rocket engine or advanced warp drive engine on it. That’s one possibility we speculated on.”
- Davis: “I don’t have the security clearances or need to know to get access to the technical details, but I’ve been made to understand that the craft are consistent in size with the tic tac, even double the size, that would be up to about 100 feet by 50 feet diameter… 
- Davis: “The biggest ones that have been observed, especially that we investigated in mid 1999 involving Scott AFB, that one was a 600 foot long craft, and it was roughly 100 feet tall. They don’t have possession of craft like that, I’ve been told it’s usually the more man-scale… Jim Lacatski, who was the program manager for AAWSAP, he described in his book somebody… went inside one of these craft… and they couldn’t recognize any propulsion or power devices or systems inside the craft. It was completely unusual.”
- Burlison: “Can you comment on whatever species have been piloting these craft?”
- Davis: “They’re typically the multiple species people are familiar with. The grays, the nordics. People have talked about the reptilian or insectoids. It’s not that they’re reptilian or insectoid, it's that they resemble, to the percipient, a reptile or insect-type ‘humanoid,’ because they have this head and four limbs and torso.”

## References

- UAPDF: [Understanding UAP: Science, National Security & Innovation](https://uapdisclosurefund.org/events/understanding-uap-science)
- UAPDF: [Eric Davis biography](https://uapdisclosurefund.org/events/understanding-uap-science/eric-davis)
- SOL: [Garry Nolan, Ph.D. on The Material Science of UAP](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7UW1jyN2o8A)
