---
title: Kingman, AZ UFO Crash Retrieval Confirmation?
episodeNumber: 44
description: Chris Mellon shared a Signal conversation with a senior USG official claiming they were getting access to the UAP that crashed in Kingman, AZ in 1953!
date: 2024-05-12
embedUrl: Kingman--AZ-UFO-Crash-Retrieval-Confirmation-e2jir5i
tags:
  - chris-mellon
  - signal
  - kingman-az
  - crash-retrieval
  - raymond-fowler
  - arthur-stansel
  - charles-wilhelm
  - leonard-stringfield
  - wright-patterson-afb
  - bill-uhouse
  - disclosure-project
  - flight-simulators
  - reverse-engineering
  - bob-lazar
  - antigravity
  - j-rod
  - los-alamos-labs
  - area-51
  - dan-burisch
  - time-travel
---

A bit of a wild ride in this episode, all kicked off by Chris Mellon sharing a Signal conversation with an unnamed senior government official who claimed to be getting access to the crash retrieval program, including a “recovered UAP that landed in Kingman, AZ in the 50s.” The Kingman crash is a legendary and controversial story, so we’re getting into it today by discussing three witnesses of varying credibility, including a engineer who was bussed out to the crash site to estimate the crash velocity, a mechanical engineer who claims to have worked on flight simulators for human reproductions of the craft recovered from Kingman, and a microbiologist who claims to have worked with an alien survivor of the crash! Not all of it is believable, but if you accept the premise that a nonhuman craft crashed in Kingman in 1953, it’s hard to know where to draw a line in the mess of contradictory claims around the crash. Buckle up, we’re getting weird!

---

## Chris Mellon’s Signal Screenshot

- Chris #UFODaddy Mellon, former Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Intelligence, and long-time supporter of the podcast, recently released a screenshot of a conversation with an unnamed senior government official who claimed to be gaining access to the secret UAP crash retrieval program.
- “Recently, as a result of a FOIA request, the DoD released some Signal exchanges I had with Dr. Sean Kirkpatrick, former Director of AARO. The release… reminded me of another Signal message that the public might find of interest that is also pertinent to the alleged recovery of off-world technology. Out of respect for the author’s confidentiality, I’ve been sitting on this message for a number of years. I have also redacted portions of the document to protect the identity of the author. However, I recently obtained the author’s written permission to release it. It has also now been approved for public release by the Defense Office of Prepublication and Security Review (DOPSR). My purpose in releasing this document, in the wake of the government’s blanket denials regarding the possession of off-world technology, is simply to help others understand why I and some others consider these allegations worthy of investigation.”
  - “[redacted] and I are making huge progress getting into the [crash retrieval] program… The [redacted] would be slack-jawed if they found out what we now know… We’re dealing with the recovered UAP that landed in Kingman, AZ in the 50s.”
  - “We’re vacuuming up info… We now know the management structure and security control systems and ownership of the C/R. We also know who recovers landed or crashed UAPs under what authorities. We also know that a still-highly classified memo by a Secretary of the USAF in the 1950s is still in effect to maintain the cover on UAPs.”
- “As you can see, this senior government official claimed they were being granted access to an alleged U.S. alien technology recovery and exploitation program. I won’t comment on the organization they worked for, but I can confirm the individual had plausible access and was high-ranking; considerably more so than whistleblower Dave Grusch.”
- “However, it is important to note that this individual now claims that although they became aware of the program, they were ultimately denied access. The author of the message still believes there are recovered materials, but they admit they have not seen or touched a recovered craft. So, unfortunately, this individual would not be able to put this issue to rest, even if they were willing to come forward, which they are not.”

## Arthur Stansel & UFO Retrieval

- In 1973, UFO researcher Raymond Fowler interviewed Arthur Stansel, who claimed to have been involved in a UFO crash retrieval twenty years earlier.
- At the time, Stansel was working as an engineer for the Office of Special Studies in the Air Force Air Material Command out of Wright-Patterson AFB. He was on special assignment to the Atomic Energy Commision for Operation Upshot-Knothole, a series of nuclear weapon tests in the Nevada Proving Ground. Stansel was there to study blast effects on buildings and structures.
- “On May 21, 1953 Stancil was called away by his boss and told to report for a special assignment [with] 15 other specialists. They were flown by military plane to Phoenix where they boarded a bus with blacked-out windows and rode for an estimated four hours. When they arrived at their destination …they were met and briefed by an Air Force Colonel who told them they were to investigate the crash of a super-secret test vehicle. He and the others on the bus were told not to speak to each other under any circumstances.”
- “Stancil's job was to determine the forward and vertical velocities of the vehicle when it impacted in the sand. He was escorted to the site by military police. Two military arc-lights illuminated the saucer, which appeared to be two convex oval plates inverted over each other approximately 30 feet in diameter.”
- Stansel gave Fowler a signed affidavit: “…During a special assignment with the U.S. Air Force, on May 21, 1953, I assisted in the investigation of a crashed unknown object in the vicinity of Kingman, Arizona. The object was constructed of an unfamiliar metal which resembled brushed aluminum. It had impacted twenty inches into the sand without any sign of structural damage.”
- “An entranceway hatch had been vertically lowered and opened. It was about 3-1/2 feet high and 1-1/2 feet wide. I was able to talk briefly with someone on the team who did look inside only briefly. He saw two swivel seats, an oval cabin, and a lot of instruments and displays.”
- “A tent pitched near the object sheltered the dead remains of the only occupant of the craft. It was about 4 feet tall, dark brown complexion and had 2 eyes, 2 nostrils, 2 ears, and a small round mouth. It was clothed in a silvery, metallic suit and wore a skullcap of the same type material. It wore no face covering or helmet.”
- “On the bus ride back they were made to sign the 'Official Secrets' act and told never to tell anyone about this incident.”
- Now, there are some collaborating witnesses to Stansel’s story:
  - In an article in 1978, UFO researcher Charles Wilhelm said that his father heard a nearly identical story from a “Major Daly.” Daly said he was placed on a bus and blindfolded, then driven into the desert, where he saw an undamaged metallic craft around 30 feet across, with an open hatch around 3 feet wide. After concluding his analysis, Daly was taken from the area by escort.
  - In 1977, UFO researcher Leonard Stringfield spoke with a pilot who saw bodies from a crash in the Arizona desert delivered to Wright-Patterson at night by a DC-7: “He recalled that he had stood inside a hangar at a distance of about 12 feet, peering at five crates on a forklift. In his judgment, the crates appeared to be hastily constructed and were made of wood. In three of these, little humanoids appearing to be 4 feet tall, were lying unshrouded on a fabric, which he explained prevented freeze burn from the dry ice packed beneath. As a number of Air Police stood silent guard near the crates, he managed to get a reasonably good but brief glimpse of the humanoid features. He recalls that their heads were hairless and narrow, and by human standards were disproportionately large, with skin that looked brown under the hangar lights above. The eyes seemed to be open, the mouth small, and nose, if any, was indistinct. My informant also heard from the crewmember that one of the entities was still alive aboard the craft when the U.S. military team arrived. Attempts were made to save its life with oxygen, but they were unsuccessful.”

## Bill Uhouse & UFO Simulator

- One of the 2001 Disclosure Project witnesses was Bill Uhouse, a retired pilot in the Marine Corps. He says that after he left the Marines, he was working with the Air Force out of Wright-Patterson AFB doing experimental flight-testing. He was approached and asked if he wanted to work in an area on “new creative devices.” He and several others were reassigned to Link Aviation, which was a flight simulator manufacturer.
- “Uhouse is a retired engineer who claims to have worked for over 30 years on a project to build flight simulators for human reproductions of alien spacecraft. As he explains it, when any kind of aircraft is in development, a flight simulator is built in parallel with it to train pilots and test systems. He defines a simulator as something that ‘simulates an actual device or craft to enable the operator to reproduce conditions or phenomena likely to occur in actual performance.’”
- Uhouse: “I don't think any flying disc simulators went into operation until the early 1960s-around 1962 or 1963, because the simulator wasn't actually functional until around 1958. The simulator that a 10-meter extraterrestrial craft that crashed in Kingman, Arizona, back in 1953. That's the first one that they took out to the test flight.”
- “The simulator he worked on was identical in appearance to the actual craft except it was attached to the ground through a gimbaled base. These simulators are used to train pilots to fly the craft, but they are more than just a cockpit. They reproduce the entire craft, inside and out. The simulators closely match the kind of craft Lazar describes, with a reactor in the middle and three gravity amplifiers below deck.”
- Uhouse: “The disc simulator didn't have a reactor, [but] we had a space in it that looked like the reactor that wasn't the device we operated the simulator with. We operated it with six large capacitors that were charged with a million volts each, so there were six million volts in those capacitors. They were the largest capacitors ever built. These particular capacitors, they'd last for 30 minutes, so you could get in there and actually work the controls and do what you had to to get the simulator, the disc to operate.”
- Uhouse: “So, it wasn't that simple, because we only had 30 minutes. Okay? But, in the simulator you'll notice that there are no seat belts. Right? It was the same thing with the actual craft—no seat belts. You don't need seat belts, because when you fly one of these things upside down, there is no upside down like in a regular aircraft—you just don't feel it. There's a simple explanation for that: you have your own gravitational field right inside the craft, so if you are flying upside down, to you, you are right side up.”
- Uhouse: “I was inside the actual alien craft for a start-up. Each engineer that had anything to do with the design was part of the start-up crew. We would have to verify all the equipment that we put in, to be sure it worked like it was supposed to. Because the disc has its own gravitational field, you would be sick or disoriented for about two minutes after getting in, after it was cranked up. It takes a lot of time to become used to it.”
- “The alien control systems in the original craft, which are unusable to our pilots, have been replaced by the sort of avionics that our engineers already familiar with.”
- Uhouse: “We had meetings, and I ended up in a meeting with an alien. They called him J-Rod. I don't know if that was his real name or not, but that's the name the linguist gave him. The alien used to come in with Dr. Edward Teller and some of the other guys, occasionally, to handle questions that maybe we'd have. But you have to understand that everything was specific to the group. If it wasn't specific to our responsibility, mechanical design for the avionics on the flight deck for the disc simulators, you couldn't talk about it. It was on a need-to-know basis.”
- “So basically, the alien was only giving engineering advice and science advice. you'd get into a spot where you [would] try and try and try, and it wouldn't work. And that's when he'd [the alien] come in. They would tell him to look at this and see what we did wrong. In some cases our alien advisors could help us with a technical problem but won't. Like a school teacher withholding the solution to a math problem, they seem to want us to figure things out for ourselves so we gain the skills for future use.”
- “We have a sketch of J-Rod drawn by [Uhouse] J-Rod is a Gray, like you've probably seen on UFO shows on TV. He has a large, round, hairless head, with an expressionless slit for a mouth, two small holes for a nose and big, black wraparound eyes. He has four long fingers on each hand, ending in very long, Howard Hughes-style nails. Unlike on television, this Gray is dressed in human clothing. He is wearing a button-down shirt and is shown in the sketch in a relaxed, human-like posture as though sitting behind a desk. [Uhouse] explains that the street clothes are intended only to put at ease the humans who must interact with the alien.”
- “This was a very long-term project that started in the mid-50s, shortly before [Uhouse] joined it. The organization was heavily compartmentalized, and he knows only as much as he needed to know to do his job. Working on such an exotic technology, the workers had to know at least the basics of where it came from. Briefings over the years confirmed that the technology was indeed extraterrestrial. He and his co-workers were told about the early contacts between the aliens and our military, but they were not told about the alien agenda or what was happening at present.”
- Uhouse: “The vessel that fell in Arizona in 1953 contained four entities; two were disabled and two were reasonably well but somewhat confused. All entities were later taken to Los Alamos Labs in New Mexico for medical treatment and tests. The entities, referred to now as the ‘boys,’ were secured in a medical facility that was manned by doctors, physicists, chemists and linguists. Initially, communications were limited to basic sign language. The first significant communication was between the bioastronautic engineer and the tallest entity of the four, who was dubbed 'Smiling Eyes.' The boys wanted to return to their vessel. After much deliberation, it was agreed to take them to the Nevada Test Site where the vessel was now located.”
- Uhouse: “A request was made by the leader of the boys that they be housed at the Test Site, and they made additional requests for material, equipment and literature. So began a new era. Selection of personnel in the organization was directed by the visitors. They insisted that the leader was to be the bioastronomical engineer who first made contact. You cannot imagine the situation this caused. It was like putting a private in charge of the generals. Nearly all appointments were selected from the science field.”

## Dan Burisch & J-Rod:

- Now, let’s get weird with it. We’re going to talk about an extremely controversial witness, Dan Burisch, and his time during the mid-90s working at Area 51 with J-Rod.
- It appears that J-Rod is actually a designation for this type of entity, not an individual, because there appear to be multiple J-Rods. There’s the one working as a technical advisor to Bill UHouse’s team, and then there’s the one Dan Burisch works with, and maybe more.
- Dan Burisch claims to have worked as a microbiologist at the S-4 facility in Area 51 in a program studying the species-wide “neuropathy” (nerve damage) of an alien kept in a clean containment unit.
- “Dan began to work as part of the Aquarius-J-Rod team which was tasked with the problem of figuring out why the J-Rods (commonly called Grays) were suffering from a debilitating medical condition that affected their nerves. Part of this work involved taking physical tissue samples from the J-Rod housed deep below S-4 in a ‘Clean Sphere’ designed to support his atmospheric and environmental needs.”
- “Dan was introduced into the protocols surrounding the J-Rod by having him be part of the backup team, while his supervisor Steven M. would suit up and go in to do the tissue sample removals. However, the J-Rod began to reject Steven and make demands that Dan be allowed to suit up and enter the Clean Sphere for the tissue samples instead. This created some immediate problems in the team structure as Dan was the newest member and not nearly senior enough in time or experience for such a responsibility. But the J-Rod was insistent. Dan was rapidly promoted within the team and soon found himself being trained in the protocols necessary for entering into the Clean Sphere and work directly with the J-Rod.”
- “It was later learned that the reason that the J-Rod insisted on this change of personnel, was because he recognized Dan as one of the abducted children on the craft he had been aboard back in the early 1970s. It is always difficult to explain this, since discussing the movement through time as well as space is difficult. This particular J-Rod had been traveling in the company of a group of P45s (a J-Rod group originating approximately 45,000 years into the future) who were doing the abduction sampling that day in the early 1970s. He then traveled back to 1953 on a different mission which ended in a crash near Kingman, AZ. He was recovered from that crash location and taken to S-4 and housed there. As a result of his presence on the craft when Dan was abducted, he felt a strong connection to Dan.”
- “Dan eventually became accustomed to his new role, but on one occasion, while he was working directly with the J-Rod, there was a break in the protocol, and the J-Rod took a step towards Dan. This was still early enough in their working relationship that it startled Dan who backed up (again a violation of the protocol) and ended up catching his heel on a floor grate and falling backwards. The J-Rod climbed up on top of him, and sat on his chest while taking this opportunity to ‘think’ deeply to Dan, sharing a great deal of his people’s history and his own personal experiences with Dan.”
- “Burisch claims that there are two groups of J-Rods, both races of future humans who have traveled back in time to our world. One group, called the P45s (an abbreviation for Present + 45,000 years), come from 45,000 years in our future. Another group is called the P52s, and come from 52,000 years in our future.”
  - “The P45s are also called ‘the rogues’, and are self-serving in their agenda – which the P52s are not. According to Dan, the P45s are intent on ‘justifying their history’ and WANT the catastrophe to occur, as this occurred in their history and was pivotal in creating them as a race. The purpose of the abductions is a long-term longitudinal genetic drift study which is aimed solely at benefiting their species. The P52s are more altruistic and have returned to attempt to help our present time situation.”
  - “There is also a third group, called the P52 Orions. These are also known in UFO and contact reports as the ‘Nordics’, are much more human-looking, and are a very spiritual race. The differences in physiology occurred after the catastrophe – which in our timeframe has not yet happened – caused by one group (the P45 and P52 J-Rods) staying underground on Earth to survive in the post-apocalyptic world until eventually they migrated to Zeta Reticuli, while the other group (the P52 Orions) left Earth soon after the catastrophe to venture to the Moon, then Mars, then to other distant star systems which became their new home. Environmental and other factors created the marked difference in the two genomes after several tens of thousands of years had passed. The P45 Orions were in good shape, while the P45 and P52 J-Rods had degenerated substantially.”

## References:

- Chris Mellon: [Another Signal Exchange](https://christopherkmellon.substack.com/p/another-signal-message)
- Nick Redfern: [The Kingman UFO Crash of 1953](https://archive.org/details/crash-retrieval-conference-proceedings-3rd-annual-2005/page/36/mode/1up)
- UAP Gerb: [The 1953 Kingman, Arizona UFO Crash](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=41V4Pf_8oo4)
- Patrick Gross: [1953 Kingman Arizona alleged UFO crash](https://ufologie.patrickgross.org/htm/kingman53.htm)
- UFO Insight: [The Kingman UFO Crash](https://www.ufoinsight.com/ufos/cover-ups/kingman-ufo-crash)
- Richard Geldreich, Jr.: [1953 Kingman AZ Crash Retrieval](https://medium.com/@richgel99/1953-kingman-az-crash-retrieval-6eac40d724c7)
- Richard Geldreich, Jr.: [William \(Bill\) G. Uhouse’s Marine Corps Service Verified](https://medium.com/@richgel99/william-bill-g-uhouses-marine-corps-service-verified-53890a291fac)
- Groom Lake Desert Rat #24: [The Story Of "Jarod"](https://web.archive.org/web/20191125030420/http://www.ufomind.com/area51/desertrat/1995/dr24/)
- Groom Lake Desert Rat #27: [Jarod’s Simulator](https://web.archive.org/web/20191220162542/http://www.ufomind.com/area51/desertrat/1995/dr27/)
- Groom Lake Desert Rat #27: [More Details from Jarod](https://web.archive.org/web/20200111115220/http://www.ufomind.com/area51/desertrat/1995/dr28/)
- Linda Moulton Howe: [Two Scientists describe an EBE called “J-Rod”](https://www.earthfiles.com/2002/10/05/part-1-two-scientists-describe-an-extraterrestrial-biological-entity-called-j-rod/)
- Linda Moulton Howe: [The Strange Story of J-Rod, An EBE](https://www.earthfiles.com/1999/06/14/the-strange-story-of-j-rod-an-ebe/)
- Project Camelot: [Dan Burisch Summary](https://projectcamelotportal.com/2008/01/04/dan-burisch-summary/)
