---
title: Burlison Site Visits have White House Support
episodeNumber: 84
description: Rep. Burlison disclosed that he’s received assistance from the White House to perform site visits at restricted facilities to investigate UFO whistleblower claims.
date: 2026-03-15
embedUrl: Burlison-Site-Visits-have-White-House-Support-e3ggfav
feature_image: '/images/feature/84-burlison-visits.jpg'
tags:
  - donald-trump
  - eric-burlison
  - leslie-kean
  - james-fox
  - aaro
---

In a wide-ranging Ask Me Anything interview featured questions from several UFO subreddits, Rep. Eric Burlison discussed how President Trump’s recent UAP disclosure post on Truth Social has already had an impact on disclosure efforts. He also shared that a new UFO investigative body has been created that works above AARO, and that the White House has supported his efforts to gain access to UFO-related locations to perform site visits and investigate whistleblower claims.

---

## Trump’s UFO Disclosure Post

- Burlison: “ the Trump administration from day one dedicated some resources to… investigating this [topic], but… priority wise, the groups investigating it, felt like it was difficult to justify too many resources given the nature of the prioritization that it was. And, in fact… one of the groups… this is what I was told last week. They said, Congressman… prior to last week and the president's truth [social post], this was probably… number 598 outta the 600 priorities that we had. But now it's in the top 10… I think that we're gonna see a lot of movement.”
- Burlison: “ And the other thing is that it's giving… our team… that's being led by Anna [Paulina Luna] a little bit more authority, if you will… We put out a letter that was sent yesterday to Marco Rubio, to Pete Hegseth, to Tulsi Gabbard, and to Chris Wright in the DOE. That’s a letter from myself that's signed by Nancy Mace, Eli Crane, Scott Perry, Anna Luna, Tim Burchett, Subramanyam, a Democrat member, and Andre Carson who is a Democrat member. Of note is that two individuals on this list that signed this letter are on the intelligence committee. So you have the task force and… members of the intelligence committee… following up on the President's truth [social post] and furthermore, specifically giving a list of of… file names and the dates of these files, the metadata on these files, that we were aware of, but we do not have the files themselves. And so this letter is requesting that Congress [be] able to see these files specifically.”
  - Burlison: “ What's also important to note is that we have the documents… in that request have been given to us by whistleblowers… or journalists that have working with whistleblowers. And in those lists of files, we have people on the inside that are monitoring whether or not those files are moved or deleted… So they can't really deny that the files exist… At the end of the day… if those are deleted, that will be extremely interesting to find out…  and you'll definitely know because I'll be screaming from the rooftops.”

## New UAP Investigation Team

- Burlison: “ I was in a briefing last week that I'm gonna be very cautious about talking about, but in that briefing I learned that they're dedicating more resources to an overarching team that's above AARO, if you will, but working with AARO. So you have multiple agencies that are investigating this topic, which I think is good, I really do… The other agencies have not publicly stated that they're investigating this, so I'm not gonna say which ones. You can probably assume. Pick your three letter acronym and you'll figure it out.”

## What Burlison Has Learned

- Burlison: “ I myself have moved on this topic slightly. When I first started approaching this, I was highly skeptical that there's non-human intelligence that's visited this planet. What I can say is that I have seen… that there is absolutely something happening. I've seen enough evidence, whether it's photos, videos, narratives from people that are sworn in behind closed doors that demonstrate to me without any level of doubt that there's absolutely some kind of objects that are flying, that are in essence, messing with us. Not being hostile, but really kind of messing with us, in our military, whether it's military bases, nuclear missile sites, or test ranges. And we do not know what these things are, and they display an entirely different type of physics than we have ever seen.”
  - Burlison: “ I've seen objects move at incredible speeds between planes, and I'm talking like mach three, that are kind of an orb or kind of spherical object. Nothing really up close, but certainly clear as day, flying at incredible speed. I've also seen glowing orbs that almost look like a ball of light. And I would say in general, all of these objects seem to be about the size of a beach ball, whether it was the metallic object, those flying at incredible speeds or these glowing type of lights. They almost seem like a fluid… it could be plasma. I have no idea, but it looks like something that's fluid and glowing and it's often different colors of lights, and sometimes it will appear and disappear or it'll move in right angles and things like that.”
- Burlison: “ As I've been talking to people, I put together a list of names of people to talk to… add more names to it. And one of the more interesting stories is that someone that had experience in special forces, in the intelligence community, I was running by the list with them and they said, you need to take those two names off your list and never talk about those two people ever again… They would have no problem having you killed.”

## Burlison’s Site Visits

- Burlison: “ I spent the entire day with the White House staff… and at one point in that conversation, I said… I need your help. And they said, what do you mean? I said, well, I'm, I'm on this team. We're tasked with doing this, but we keep getting the hand in the face every time we request anything. We keep getting blocked. We keep getting told that we don't have access or that we don't have a need to know. And he said, well, what do you want? And I said, okay. what I want is a White House level briefing, same briefing that the president gets, if you're taking the request, that's my highest request. Furthermore, I would like to be able to have a green light to go visit some of these locations. And the gentleman that I was asking kind of smirked and I said, is this comical to you? Do you think that I'm not a serious person? He said, no, I just wanna go with you.”
  - Burlison: “ And, turns out he did. He was able to go with me. He had to follow the proper channels as well. And we visited the first of many sites. Hopefully. I'm gonna be cautious in talking about that because I don't want to jeopardize the ability to go to the remaining locations, if you will. I truly think that for them, this was a test of whether or not this would become a circus for them. And so I'm just treading cautiously before I release too much information about what I've learned and where I went.”
- James Fox: “ Congressman, when you say you went to visit the site, are you implying the alleged site that could potentially be housing non-human technology?”
  - Burlison: “ Yeah, or once did house non-human technology.  it was pretty obvious that that first site that we were going to did not have active material, but potentially could have in the past. So what was important was to see the facilities and the structures and to try to ascertain, first and foremost, did those facilities exist and were they designed in such a way that… could have been utilized for reverse engineering.”
  - Burlison: “I fully expect that, at many of these sites [associated with UAP materials], there isn't going to be material there… but there is enough evidence of infrastructure on the property to indicate that there was. What I was trying to do was prove, or find, any kind of evidence or proof of the narrative. So, if I could prove, for example, that there was a building created for the purpose of receiving a transfer of goods, then, at least if the building exists, I can identify and prove that there may be some validity to that story.”
- Leslie Kean: “ Were the the people at the site cooperative and helpful… or were they resistant to having you visit?”
  - Burlison: “ No, they were very cooperative. What I kind of interpreted from this is that… you have things that have happened in the past, and… you're talking about personnel that have changed over many times. And so a lot of times they're not aware of the history of some of the things that you're talking about, because that's not something that they're working on currently… I had specifically wanted to meet with a particular individual that works at that location and I actually expected them to turn me down but was surprised that they actually arranged a meeting in a SCIF with the person that I had requested. So I do think that they're being cooperative, and now that the president has given his truth [social post], I think that it gives everyone, all the way down the line, an understanding that this is to be taken seriously and to follow through.”

## National Security vs Disclosure

- James Fox: “ Congressman, if you did find what you're looking for, is there a particular protocol… if you find what you're looking for?”
  - Burlison: “ If I find what I'm looking for, I'm gonna be very careful to protect any kind of national security interest. But at the same time, I've been very clear that it is not the right of this country to withhold basic, fundamental evidence that we may or may not be alone. And so if we have any kind of evidence of that, we should be telling the world, and not holding back, and give as many details as possible, and be as transparent as possible without jeopardizing any secrets that our national security is dependent upon.”
- Leslie Kean: “What are the national security aspects of this that need to be withheld and for what reasons?”
  - Burlison: “ Well, I'm just gonna speculate. Okay. If we have a type of technology that we have reverse engineered, that gives us a strategic advantage. I think that, for example, letting the world know that we have this craft, here it is, here's a photo of it. But you don't have to tell the world how exactly… that operates. In the same way that when the nuclear bomb first was invented and utilized, we revealed to the world that we had this capability. But we certainly are not gonna tell people how to make one, and the specifics behind that. Now, I think if the technology that's derived has nothing to do with changing our threat dynamic with an adversary, and it might benefit society and the world, by all means, let's release it. Let's let the world's scientific minds utilize anything that we might have discovered…  Like, if we have evidence or if we have bodies, we should release that to the world…  I don't see why it would be of national security interest to withhold that from the world.”

## References

- YouTube: [Multi-Subreddit AMA - Rep. Eric Burlison, James Fox & Host Leslie Kean](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9bzH1ssL9yI)
- Liberation Times: [White House-Approved Trip Allegedly Took Congressman to Maryland Base to Examine Suspected UFO Facility](https://www.liberationtimes.com/home/white-house-approved-trip-allegedly-took-congressman-to-maryland-base-to-examine-suspected-ufo-facility)
