---
title: “A military complex accountable to no one,” Rubio & Coulthart on UAP Whistleblower Grusch
episodeNumber: 21
description: 'Marco Rubio and Ross Coulthart raise serious concerns about the UAP program, including threats to whistleblowers and legal concerns.'
date: 2023-07-09
embedUrl: 21--A-military-complex-accountable-to-no-one--Rubio--Coulthart-on-UAP-Whistleblower-Grusch-e26oe7r
tags:
  - aaro
  - anna-paulina-luna
  - crash-retrieval
  - daniel-sheehan
  - david-grusch
  - hearings
  - jake-sullivan
  - james-comer
  - kirsten-gillibrand
  - leslie-kean
  - marco-rubio
  - martin-heinrich
  - reverse-engineering
  - ross-coulthart
  - steven-greer
  - whistleblowers
---

Chuck is out sick, but we’ve got a special cohost for today: Scott’s wife, Annie! We’re going to be discussing the continuing news of impending UAP hearings in both the House and the Senate, possibly this month! We have additional comments from Marco Rubios’ NewsNation interview, discussing whistleblower concerns that speaking out is punishable by death, and the specter of an unaccountable UAP complex. And journalist Ross Coulthart appeared on all the podcasts, and left some juicy bits of information for us, including the possibility that one of the recovered craft was too large to move, and they just built a building around it! Plus, whistleblowers under threat to sign new NDAs and some legal considerations around private contractors working with government-provided UFO material.

## Upcoming Congressional UAP Hearings:

- Senate staffer says Sen Gillibrand will hold the Senate Armed Services UAP hearing sometime in July.
- A staffer from Rep. Luna’s office says David Grusch will be testifying publicly at the House Oversight Committee hearing, with a timeframe of July 20-31.
- Ross Coulthart: “The one thing I do caution is, I’m told by my sources in Congress, it’s going to take a while. I know a lot of people are hopeful that we’ll see hearings in the next few weeks, but really there’s only about two weeks left in the current settings of the Congress before they all go away on holiday for the long summer in America. I am beginning to think that it might be decided that it would be better to put all the possibilities of hearings off until September and I’d be very surprised if we’re going to see substantive hearings before September. I know Congressman Tim Burchett from Tennessee was hopeful that they might be able to have a public hearing before then, and that might happen, it might happen in the House Oversight Committee. But just to explain, and this is no disrespect to Representative Burchett, the problem with the Oversight Committee is it just doesn’t have the membership who have the credentials, the security clearances that are high enough, even in their own staffers, to allow them to hear a lot of the evidence that people like Mr Grusch would like to give. There are only certain key committees in the Congress, mainly the Armed Services and Intelligence committees that have the security clearances both in their membership and in their staff that allow them to hear highly classified information particularly very classified special access programs so I’m beginning to wager that this is going to take a while and it might be a few months yet before we start seeing some answers.”
- Sen Martin Heinrich, one of 17 senators on the Senate Intelligence Committee, remains skeptical about Grusch’s claims, but supports the UAP hearings: “I think that’s a reasonable approach. First person accounts just have more resonance than hearsay.”
- House Oversight Committee chair James Comer says although Grusch is credible, some of the other witnesses had to be replaced after they failed their background checks: “We’re gonna do it. There’s a lot of witnesses, but it’s pretty amazing some of the background checks were getting back. I know that we had to reshuffle the deck on a few witnesses because of some issues. An old trick in oversight is: whoever the minority witness is or whoever the majority is, first thing the other side does is background checks on ‘em to see if they’ve ever been accused of being a racist or if they have a felony, 99.9% of the time, nothing comes back, but some of these have got some interesting backgrounds.”
- Ross Coulthart: “I do know there has been a large number of witnesses that have come forward, some of them have come forward from Dr Steven Greer’s Disclosure Project, and I think the people that might have been weeded out included people from that group. I’m told that there are no witnesses in support of Mr Grusch who have been excluded. It’s been explained to me that even though a lot of people have some very negative opinions of Dr Greer, including myself, I’ve got strong doubts about some of the assertions he’s made in the past. I understand that he’s actually provided some highly credible witnesses to the Congress, and that those witnesses are people with direct knowledge of the legacy UAP program. It’s kind of an odd mix of what Dr Greer has provided to the Congress, I don’t think he’s been as discriminating as perhaps he ought to have been in providing witnesses to give evidence. And when Rep Comer has made these comments, I think, yes, sure, there’ll be a culling of some witnesses, but my understanding is that none of those witnesses that have been culled are witnesses that are substantiating what Mr Grusch says.”

## More Marco Rubio Comments from News Nation:

- A few more bits from his News Nation interview where he talked about additional witnesses with first-hand knowledge of the program. It’s worth remembering that Marco Rubio is on the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, he’s a member of the gang of eight, he’s a former (and likely future) presidential candidate. And he speaks very soberly on the topic.
- Asked about what the public should make of Grusch’s claims: “Well, two things. Either it’s not true— and I’m not claiming it is, and I’m not besmirching him or anybody else, because we passed a law to make it possible for people like this to come forward. Remember, a lot of these people signed these non-disclosure agreements, and they’re fearful of ever commenting because **they think it’s punishable by death**. So we passed a law that basically said you can come forward and talk to Congress or the UAP task force. So I don’t want to say that anybody is not telling the truth. I understand that this is something that sounds fantastic and out of the ordinary. I would just say if it is even partially true, then somebody has broken the law, there’s been some violations, because these things have to be disclosed to Congress. I mean, Congress has been paying for it, and probably for a long time.”
- Echoed by Leslie Kean, also interviewed on NewsNation: “I do think there will be, there already have been other whistleblowers, but the question is will they go public, and that remains to be seen. They’re very concerned for safety, jobs, there’s still a stigma against this. They don’t wanna lose [security] clearances, many have been told not to come forward by places where they work. There’s a lot of risks involved.”
- Asked about Grusch’s claims that AARO is being kept in the dark: “It’s very problematic if it’s accurate, because if that is accurate — and again, I’m not in a position yet to make that judgment — but if that is accurate, what you’re basically saying is that within the government of the United States, there’s a group of people who believe that they possess something that they don’t need to share with anybody, including elected officials who they view as temporary employees of the government. And, you know, in essence, some sort of an **internal military complex that’s their own government and is accountable to no one**. So it would be a huge problem if it’s even partially true.”

## Ross Coulthart dropped a BUNCH of stuff this week:

- On the Good Trouble Show: “I learned there have been secret hearings in the Congress now for at least two years where witnesses have come forward with evidence of the crash retrieval program. So when you see these Congressmen and Senators appearing on TV and saying ‘We’re going to get to the bottom of this and we’re very concerned to analyze this and find out the truth about this stuff,’ I know for a fact that their committees have actually heard this evidence, and there are transcripts available of which they can appraise themselves, where the witnesses have given full evidence, under oath, and testified to not only the existence of the program, but the alleged location of the technology, the craft, the name of the people running the program, how it’s coordinated, how it’s hidden, the codenames, locations, everything.”
- On Neon Galactic with James Faulk: “I am aware that President Biden’s National Security Advisor, Jake Sullivan, has attended a meeting in the Senate where crash retrievals and reverse engineering programs were discussed with Senators. It was kept very very secret, and I know he attended, and what’s interesting is why the White House hasn’t been pushed on this.”
- Good Trouble Show: “You’re hearing that whistleblowers, as part of that harassment, are being asked to sign a new NDA. Is the wording any different, is it just a reminder that ‘Hey, you better not talk’?” “I’m not going into specifics because I don’t want to compromise sources, but what I am prepared to say is that I know people have been threatened to sign new NDAs. And if you recall, as part of the NDAA is that all such NDAs have to be disclosed to the Congress, to the AARO. So we’ve got this ridiculous situation, where clearly, I believe, there are people inside the IC operating in direct contradiction to the stated intention of the Congress. That’s serious, I mean, that’s criminality, that’s criminal behavior by intelligence operatives going around intimidating and threatening people. I’m in contact with people. I’ve been talking to David Grusch for some time, and he’s one of multiple people who are aware of what the public wants to know. And they’re worried that there is a deliberate attempt to frustrate the good intentions of good people in the Congress. And the big question is, is the Congress going to let them get away with that?”
- On Project Unity, talking about the new Senate intelligence bill that gives holders of non-earth origin or exotic UAP material six months to make it available to AARO. “Yeah, but Ross, doesn’t that just give them six months or more to hide their shit?” “Okay people are going to question what I’m about to say: what if some of that shit is so big it can’t be moved? So big they’ve built a building over it. In a country outside of the United States of America. I know that sounds preposterous, but some of these objects are not capable of being moved because they’re too bloody big!”
- Same question on Good Trouble Show: “Don’t you think 180 days is too much time for contractors to clear most evidence of craft and reverse engineering?” “I do have a worry about the duration of time passing before the aerospace companies have to come forward to reveal the technology they either do or don’t have. I will tell you that I am aware of at least one aerospace company that is actively making moves to try to divest itself, allegedly, of one craft that it possesses. Think about the legal implications, have a read of the legislation. If you’re an aerospace company and you’ve divested yourself of an object that you’ve had possession of for 60 or 70 years, are you then legally obliged to reveal that you’ve secretly been holding a… This is why there’s a need, frankly, for the government to take leadership on this, because this could get really messy. One of the other issues, I know for a fact is one of IP. As a lawyer, I was trained in intellectual property. Let’s just say these allegations are correct and a private aerospace company was gifted technology 50, 60, 70 years ago, and that technology is still in their possession and they’ve been spending billions of dollars trying to develop it. If there was no commercial contract signed between you and the government at the time, and I’m told there wasn’t, and essentially if all you’re doing is quietly accounting now and then to some faceless general for what you’re up to and showing them the latest tests of the technology, on what legal basis can the state assert any kind of property right over that technology?”
- Speaking of legal issues, a lawyer in Houston Texas tweeted that “We held the first meeting of attorneys yesterday with Danny Sheehan and Derek Garcia. We are preparing to file dozens or more lawsuits against the contractors that are holding the anomalous tech imminently. Contractors can take the amnesty offer to stop these suits. The plaintiffs are filing suit against specific contractors pursuant to the civil Rico statute. They seek redress for intentional injuries they incurred after seeing the tech in the possession of the contractor.”
  - RICO claims often involve “a pattern of racketeering activity” that breaks either state or federal crimes such as murder, bribery, fraud, money laundering, extortion, kidnapping, and more.
  - Injury doesnt necessarily mean physically. It might mean they’ve lost jobs, money, or opportunity.

## References

- Sen staffer: [SAS UAP hearing in July](https://twitter.com/SawanPa77614095/status/1674779180636987392)
- Rep. Luna: [Grusch to testify publicly at HOC hearing in July](https://twitter.com/sawanpa77614095/status/1676650221902635018?s=46&t=M0ofkkf9lgSjlI29wi9d5w)
- Sen. Heinrich: [Skeptical of Grusch, but supports UAP hearings](https://www.askapol.com/p/exclusive-sen-heinrich-doubts-ufo?sd=pf)
- Ross Coulthart: [Congressional hearings may bump to September](https://youtu.be/YEOB3ASfFuQ?t=1132)
- Rep. Comer: [Some UAP witnesses failed background checks](https://www.askapol.com/p/exclusive-oversight-chair-comer-says)
- Ross Coulthart: [Failed background check witnesses were from Greer](https://twitter.com/mikecolangelo/status/1676274112048635921?s=46&t=f0Godr57pK9GApYGZl4DoQ)
- Marco Rubio: [Full NewsNation interview](https://www.newsnationnow.com/video/full-interview-rubio-on-ufo-whistleblower-claims-were-taking-it-seriously-newsnation/8770746/)
- Marco Rubio: [Corrected transcript of NewsNation interview](https://twitter.com/ddeanjohnson/status/1676586457316597764)
- Daily Mail: [Senator Marco Rubio worries craft retrieval programs are being run by ‘internal military complex’ that is ‘accountable to no one’](https://www.dailymail.co.uk/sciencetech/article-12247879/Senator-Rubio-worries-classified-UFO-program-run-military-complex-accountable-no-one.html)
- Daily Mail: [Investigative journalist who broke Pentagon UFO story reveals MORE whistleblowers will come forward but they’re scared of losing their jobs, safety and their security clearance](https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-12273635/Investigative-journalist-broke-Pentagon-UFO-story-reveals-whistleblowers-come-forward.html)
- Ross Coulthart: [Secret UAP hearings for two years](https://twitter.com/MikeColangelo/status/1674609288134705154)
- Ross Coulthart: [Whistleblowers have been threatened to sign new NDAs](https://www.reddit.com/r/UFOs/comments/14mnw5o/ross_coulthart_has_heard_from_sources_that_some/)
- Ross Coulthart: [At least one aerospace co trying to divest itself of a craft](https://www.reddit.com/r/UFOs/comments/14mn58g/ross_coulthart_to_matt_ford_i_am_aware_that_at/)
- Ross Coulthart: [Some of these craft are so big they built a building over it](https://www.reddit.com/r/UFOs/comments/14tiv10/ross_coulthart_on_defense_contractors_using_the_6/)
- Ross Coulthart: [Jake Sullivan attended a Senate UFO meeting](https://twitter.com/UAPJames/status/1676245858935775233)
- Houston Lawyer: [We’re filing dozens of Rico lawsuits against contractors](https://twitter.com/Spacecowboy781/status/1677697781543350272?t=3XjOv2HCHTgSXUy0_YkDzA&s=19)
